I was born in Natchez, Mississippi,
where
the old South still is, November the 3rd, 1893, in
Arlington Heights. Can you tell us about your
parents and your early years? My mother died at the
age of three, my age of three, and I was raised by my
grandparents and my aunt in Natchez,
Mississippi.
I attended the public schools and the cathedral
Catholic school run by the Brothers of Sacred
Heart, and they were tough. While coming up in
Natchez, you know that is the antebellum south. A
lot of things happened there. For instance, Aaron
Bull was concealed in 1807 in Windy Hill, Maine,
after he killed Alexander Hamilton. So we were
raised in a history of traditions. Every home, old
home in Natchez, had some meaning in the
historical part of our country.
In Natchez, outside of, not too far from there, was
the Jefferson Military College, which was
attended at one time by Jefferson Davis. I saw that
school grow, and I saw LSU play there many, many
years ago as a child. In the city of Natchez, there
were a lot of Confederate veterans, and as a child,
I'd listen to their tales, and from them, I learned
the word, patria, that your country comes first,
and you come next. There were two National Guard
companies in Natchez. And every time then I'd get a
chance, I'd go down there and watch them drill. I
always wanted to be in the military.
After finishing the cathedral school, I had a
brother over here in Houston who had some friends
connected with the Publishers Department of
Texas A&M College and Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
And they prevailed on him to have me, his little
brother, come over here to Texas A&M. But in the
meantime, old my uncle's store was a lawyer by the
name of Lem Connor, who always represented the
Honorable John Sharp Williams, the learned
senator from Mississippi, who graduated from
Heidelberg and the University of Virginia, who
had farms down in Yazoo City. I heard him tell Mr.
Conner that he had sent his kid, his boy, John Sharp
Williams, Jr., to every school in the country, and
he couldn't get along, so he finally sent him to
Texas A&M College, where the Honorable Jefferson
Davis was offered the presidency of. So I thought
in my mind that was a good deal when my brother
talked about Texas A&M College. I had some
knowledge of where I was going.
I entered Antietam College at the age of 16, having
to take the entrance examination and ended with
the class of 14.
I was assigned to Company B, 1st Battalion. What
was your dad's? Could you tell me about your dad?
Your father? Yes, I did. I didn't put that. My
father— You told me about your mother, but you
didn't say anything about your father. Yeah,
well, my father was a fisherman and made his living
down around Boris, Louisiana. And, of course,
when my mother died, he married again and he raised
another family. And then they were in the oyster
business down there. I saw my father only twice
from
infancy. Once, when I was going to World War I, my
brother insisted I ought to see my dad, so I went on
down the Mississippi River to a place called
Burris, went across to Ostraka, where he was, and
saw him. And the train on the other side was fixing
to leave, because it wasn't going to stay a bit long
when I go back across the river, so I saw him only
only for a short while. My brother insisted I might
get killed and I ought to see my dad as I grew up when I
was grown. But I did see my father after that. My
father died at the age of 90-something. He fell. He
cut his head on an axe during a storm at Ostraca,
which is across from Burris. And they took him down
to New Orleans on a launch. But by the time he'd
arrived in New Orleans, he'd lost so much blood,
poor fella died.
Could you tell me more about your education before
you got to Texas A&M? I told you I finished it. I went
to public schools and the cathedral school run by
the Brothers of the Sacred Heart. Okay, and what
were your favorite subjects? History. History,
good. I had witnessed and also the Honorable
William Howard Taft came down the Mississippi
River. Really? as President of the United States.
And in Natchez, there are three bluffs. And one
bluff is close to Rosalie, which is an old
antebellum home, which was the headquarters of
General Grant. And that morning, the Honorable
Charles F. Engle, one of the landed young lawyers
of Natchez, in his morning coat, introduced the
President of the United States. And I said to
myself, someday, if I could be a lawyer, Like him, I
would be very happy. All right.
So that's why you wanted to become a lawyer? Well, I
didn't become a lawyer until later. I know it. All
right. Well, anyhow, so we were steeped in
tradition. And every kid knew what every home
meant and how long it had been there and all of that.
And the people over there are raising their
children the same way right now. The, uh,
At Texas A&M, I was on probation the biggest part of
the time. Why was that? Well, because I came from a
school out of the state, and that is the first year I
was on probation. And I got along all right and was
doing well until I went out on a strike in whatever
year, 1913, and I made a great mistake because they
changed... from three times to two times. And I was
out of school some 35, 40 days with the rest of the
people. And in that, I learned in life not to strike
anything but matches. Now, why did you strike? The
strike was caused on by an investigation of hazing
over in D Company by one of the Forsyth brothers.
And there was 22 people canned, one of them which
was a 32nd degree mason. And the other was we had the
meningitis scare. And we were assembled in the
chapel and told not to worry, not to congregate,
not to stay apart, and that we would escape any
danger of the disease. But while we were there in
the hall, two days prior to that time, A young man by
the name of A.W. Coons died. Well, they thought he
died with meningitis, but in testing the serum in
his spine, they found out they were mistaken. But
this funny incident happened while they were
telling us to be calm and quiet. There was a fellow
by the name of Pat Crown from Waco. He froze up right
quick like he had meningitis, and everybody ran
out of every window, every door, and everything
else out of there. And that evening caught me in a
strike due to the fact we had one doctor and two
nurses in about 15 beds at that hospital. So that
brought on a strike, which was wrong, of course,
known as the 466 Club. In my estimate, that's 466
fools, which I was one of them. Because I had to pay
for that, because when it changed from three times
to two times, there was no way I could make up my
work, and I finally graduated in 1915. Cut it off.
Cut it off. They
had to raise some money for the track team or
whatever it was, so they put on a minstrel down at
the athletic field. And I doubled in that. I did a
blackface as Dr. Ball. And I was such a hit that they
thought I'd make a pretty good candidate for Yale
leader that year so later on I was made a Yale leader
that next following year and I was assistant but my
chief Yale leader wanted to play football and I had
to act as chief all during that time and of course as
a senior I was the head Yale leader. I remember well
that I was taking public speaking in my senior year
and Dr. Bressler never did call on me the whole time
that I was in his class. I asked him why and he said
he'd been out to Yale practice and he didn't want to
waste time in class. He was convinced I could make
the public speech. As a Yale leader I had many woes
at Texas A&M College. Dr. Bazell was down there and
he was a freshman president from came down there
from CIA and he had different ideas about many
things. With old Yale practice we were at the old
bandstand and Somebody must have got word back to
him, because everything that I said or did related
back to him, and the next morning I would see the
order to come to class to have me go before the
president. In one instant, Doc Wiesel says to me,
he says, do you see all these telegrams and
letters? I read a few of them, and the letters all
said I sent my son to Texas A&M College to get an
education not to travel over the state. And I
understand that they're going to Dallas, San
Antonio, Fort Worth, Houston, Waco. Dr. Bezell
said, did you say that? I said, we might go. We might
go to these places. I didn't say we were going. He
said, you be careful what you say out there at that
yell practice because it all goes back to the
parents. At another time, he called me. We had a
yell called hidey-tidey, tiey-a-didey,
flim-flam. A lot of times the kids would yell it and
they'd use some
curse words. Gee damn varsity. So Dr. Bazell got me
up on that and told me to eliminate that yell. I
tried to explain to him that I didn't tell them to do
that. They'd do that themselves.
He would have me up every now and then to tone me down
and find out what was going on at Yale practice.
Somebody told him this, some parent wrote this,
that, and the other. However, I struggled through
the year and was never put on a report or kicked out
of school for my activity as a Yale leader. What
kind of man did you think he was? I thought Dr.
Brazell was a fine man,
but I hated to see the Board of Regents of A&M
College go to a girls' school and bring a president
down there from the CIA. He was a high religious
man, which I had no objection to, but he made
hypocrites out of a lot of those professors,
because I remember well Gilbert Allen Giesch, who
was a drunkard off the Philadelphia Ledger who
taught freehand drawing, you had him carrying the
Bible. Really? And a lot of kids would join his
Bible class just in order to get favors.
At that time, you know, A&M College, of course, was
an undersecretary, and everybody had to attend
chapel on Sunday mornings. The Jews were excused,
and Catholics who would agree to go to Mass in the
brine could go to Mass and not go to chapel. But
there was a trick in that, too. There was a senior
there at this Mass who always would check in and
out, so you... You couldn't evade going out of the
church or the chapel.
While I was a senior there, or a junior, I forget, we
organized the Newman Club, which is a Catholic
club in Lorneville. Last week or ten days, Father
Matt called me from Bryan, saying that he had
looked into Longhorn and found out that
I was one of the organizers of the Newman Club at
Texas A&M College, and that he was a chaplain up
there, and that they have 9,000 or more practicing
Catholics due to the fact they thought of the
Newman Club, which is a going concern at A&M
College. Cut. I love my professors. I had Dr.
Francis in veterinary and agronomy. And I had a Dr.
Kiblin, economics. Well, can you tell me a little
bit about Mark Francis, Dr. Mark Francis? What did
you think of him? Dr. Francis and I were very good
friends. And when I promoted, when I moved out of
Tentrow and moved over to, finally to Goodman
Hall, I would see Dr. Francis on the campus, and his
son was a classmate of mine, Beb. And we'd stop and
talk a little bit. So one day Dr. Francis told me, he
says, what do you know, Vic? Somebody hit me on the
back and said, Jesus Christ, is that you? And Dr.
Francis told me then, he says, you know, I'm deaf.
And it's a great blessing to be deaf. He says, I
don't have to hear a whole lot of H.S. from a lot of
people. Dr. Francis was lecturing one day and
There was a young man named Cogshill who had a
hearing aid on, and Dr. Francis stopped his class
in a minute, and he ran up the ramp and says, Say, can
you hear out of that damn thing? And the fellow
shook his head.
So Dr. Francis says, Well, why don't you talk if you
heard what I said? So he went on down the ramp and
continued his... his lecture. Another time, he
saw, he stopped his class abruptly and went into
the room, ante room, where we had cadavers and
things, and took a bucket and he ran up the ramp with
his bucket and he put it in front of this student and
told him, says, look, spit in this bucket, quit
spitting out of that window. Boy was chewing
tobacco. And he went back right on down
nonchalantly and nobody cracked a smile and he
went on with his lecture. Dr. Marsteller was also a
fine lecturer and we all had a lot of respect. And
once each year, Dr. Francis would devote one
lecture. I don't know whether it's been recorded,
but it is great. He always told the students, he'd
give one lecture on life insurance, how to start an
estate. Why would he do that? Why would he do that?
He did that because he loved young people. He loved
young people. As you well know, Dr. Mark Francis
came to Ohio State University, and you know his
history about the Texas fever tick and all of that.
Well, what, tell me about his son. What happened to
his son? His son, they graduated, he had two sons.
One of them died in class of 12, if you look in the
book. And Mark, and Bev was our classmate. And his
son graduated in veterinary medicine. Well, they
didn't give a degree in veterinary science in
those days, and that class didn't start until the
next year. But he had some related degree to
veterinary medicine. The same way with his
brother. He was in the Army in World War I and II, and
had a furniture store in Bryan. His pictures, one
of them there. And he had a son, Mark Francis, Jr.,
But Bev is dead. Practically all the members of my
class in 1915 are dead, and about 18 still living,
and none of them can move about. I've been to these
class reunions. This year I couldn't go because of
the conflict with the Marine Corps reunion in New
Orleans. It came the same day, so I couldn't go. But
I've been the only member there. What were your
favorite classes when you were at A&M? I love
veterinary medicine. I like economics. And of
course, you don't have any history in your senior
year, but we had history as freshmen. And the
chemistry came hard just like it did to everybody
else, and I was no exception. I had to take about
four courses in chemistry. And I failed the first
course in chemistry, and I didn't realize it. Oh,
everybody was saying there's no disgrace to
failing. But I didn't realize before I could go
another step further, I had to pass that first
course in chemistry, which I wound up taking four
courses in chemistry before I graduated. I was
wondering, when you came to A&M, when you decided
to come to A&M, was that because you had talked to a
lot of these old Confederate soldiers so much, and
because you knew A&M as a military school? Yeah,
no, patria, the word patria. I knew A&M was a
military school, and what my brother, what John,
the Honorable John Charles William had said about
the school, and when he connected that with
Jefferson Davis, I knew that's where I wanted to go
to school. Another favorite professor I had was
Dr. Kibler, who taught economics. And I well
remember it was his senior year. in the last class.
They'd been talking about social sciences, and
there's a boy got up from Mason, Texas, by the name
of Mason, and he said to Dr. Kibler, I've been
listening to you talking about these social
sciences. Don't you have to have, don't you have to
promote poverty for social sciences to be a
success? At that time, Dr. Kibler said, sit down,
we'll meet some other time, or we never did meet any
time. However, those words from Mason is brought
up through the years and that we have all this
social science, all this relief, all this food
stamps, all this stuff that that young man was
really thinking ahead.
Mason's brother was a Marine and he died of cancer.
He was in the 13th Marines in Brest, but anyhow, he
died of cancer and I went out to see him there in the
yard. What about, I have another question, and
that is, When you were at A&M, did you think that you
might want to be in the military as a career? I
didn't become a sergeant until in my junior year.
Not that I wasn't on the military, but I guess maybe
I didn't fit in. I never was a corporal, but I was
made a sergeant in my junior year. And then finally
I was made a second lieutenant in G Company, but I
had to transfer. I swapped with a boy named Gamble
and got back in B Company, because that's where I
was raised. So I was a low-ranking second
lieutenant in B Company. And I always liked the
military. I never missed a drill. I never missed a
guard mount. I never missed anything. But
however, there were other people more proficient
in the military art than I was. Of course, we had to
take military science and tactics. We had to study
the campaigns of Marengo, Napoleonic campaigns,
and all of that, which I don't know whether they do
that today. I want to say I was a shining star. Now,
were you in a position of leadership in the Corps?
Second lieutenant. No. Oh, okay. Low rank and
second lieutenant in B Company. The lowest
ranking. I had one higher ranking second
lieutenant myself. That was it. But your
leadership was with the Yale, Yale leadership.
That's correct. See, anyhow, I guess maybe they
made me a... But Dr. Zell did tell me when I
graduated, he said, congratulations, I'm glad
you're gone. That's what he said? I'm glad you're
gone? That's right. Were you always considered a
Hellraiser then? Considered, yes, in a way, but I
was always within the lines. Of course, as a
freshman, I was on a student labor role, and I
worked down at the steam plant for 17 and a half
cents an hour, and we'd unload the gondola one
hour, And then fire the boiler the next hour. I well
remember when I went down there to apply for the job
at the steam plant. Of course, you had to clear with
the main office. And this old man, Groupy, showed
me how to fire a boiler. He asked me if I'd ever fired
a Nolson. Well, there was a hole there about maybe
24 inches long and maybe 12 inches wide. You're
supposed to open this hole. and take your scoop and
turn your shovel and spread the cinders across the
coils. So he showed me how to do it one time and then
next he had me do it again and I missed and he made me
pick up all the coal and I did it and missed again the
second time and finally I got the swing of turning
my wrist to spread the coal. I also had a job putting
the mail on the train. I got $10 a month for that. I
put the mail on a northbound train that came from
Houston going to Dallas along about midnight, and
then the one going south going to Houston from
Dallas at 3 o'clock in the morning. So along about
quarter to 12, I'd leave my barracks and go down and
get into the mail room. I had to pull the mail truck
out to where the mail
car stopped, and that was it, and then pull the mail
back into the mail room So at the mail, the
postmaster would get it. I got ten dollars a month
for that and every time I missed the mail I was fined
ten dollars and several times I didn't make any
money just because I overslept.
So it wasn't a very profitable job. It wasn't a very
profitable job. Well in those days ten dollars
went a long ways. Another thing I had also, I was an
agent from the M.C. Lilly Company selling cap
covers, and I'd blow everybody that had to have a
cap cover. Made a little profit on that. What are
cap covers? The cap cover, your military cap. Oh,
okay, okay, the little, yeah, okay. Yeah. The
little cover on top of your military hat. Yeah, and
those funny little hats you had on. Sure, yeah,
okay. So, the real... The real, I've been used to
handling money and the first thing you know I was
made chairman of the Thanksgiving Hop as a junior.
And I organized these people, I got collections
from profs and everything else. And financially
it was a huge success. And I published a report Of
course, we hit the professors and everybody else.
And I had a report from each company how much and
gave them a report on the expenditures and all like
that. And they thought that was a great thing, but I
didn't know anything about it because I'd had a
little bookkeeping back in that cathedral school
in Natchez. I just thought that was the proper
thing to do to render a report and put it on the
bulletin board. Well, I did the wrong thing,
because every time somebody about finances came
up, they wanted to appoint me chairman of that
committee. Oh. So you got a lot of experience
there. That's right. Anyhow, so that brings me to
graduation. Well, I was happy to graduate. The
Honorable James Ferguson, the governor of Texas,
handed me my diploma. And I proceeded to Houston
after that.
That would be in 1915, and they had nobody to ever
offer me any jobs. I have a question, though, about
when you came to A&M, did you have any money to pay
for it, or did you just find these jobs? No, my
brother advanced me the money. Oh, good. My
brother advanced me the money, and I didn't want to
impose on him too much because he was married, so I
got my other money by working. And when you
graduated then in 1915, did you have some firm
goals? Did you want to go in the military? Well, the
thing about that, I went over there to the post
office, and I thought I had a degree in
agriculture, but in my mind what I did want to do, I
had made a labor income report on the Harlem State
Farm, and Mr. Blakely was a friend of mine, and I had
in my mind if I could work at the Harlem Farms, work
for the government a couple of years, then go to the
Harlem Farms and bring in mechanical farming on a
large scale. I learned a lot about farming. Then I
wanted to get out on my own as a large scale
mechanical farmer. Because just about that time,
the hard part, people brought a tractor down to
A&M. There was nothing but one of these machines
that you level ass for with, and it had spikes in it.
And they put a... Professor Gee was a professor.
And they put a rail behind it, and they had a
spike-toothed harrow and a disc harrow and a
buster and so forth and so on. But anyhow, so... I go
over there and take a look at the post office. On the
other side, they wanted a second lieutenant from
the Marine Corps, and I looked at that just
slightly. My first experience with the Marine
Corps was in Natchez, Mississippi, when the
Mississippi came up the Mississippi River, and I
saw the Marine Guard on there, and I thought their
uniforms were beautiful, but I didn't know what it
was. When was that? Do you remember when that was?
What? When this first experience? Is this before
you went to A&M or after? Okay, okay. I was just
digging back a little bit. Okay, good. And I saw
this Marine Guard on there. Okay, good. On the U.S.
Mississippi. Came up the Mississippi River. But
anyhow, the...
But when you were at A&M, you weren't thinking
about making a career out of the military then,
were you? No, I wasn't. No, I was not. But anyhow,
the...
So I looked at the Department of Agriculture and I
looked at the other, the second lieutenant of the
Marine Corps, so I decided that maybe I'd try
agriculture. So I put in an application for that
and I was given a job with the
U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Bureau of
Plant Industry, which was cooperating with the
state of Texas. in the cancer control, or citrus
cancer control, and also a few of the plant
diseases we were trying to control, pink boll one.
So I took that job and I said, they asked me a
question, how many languages I could speak, and I
said I could understand Italian and speak a little
of it. That's all I said, I didn't say I could read it
or write it, which of course I was ashamed of, I
should have learned to read it and write it. but
they didn't speak Italian in my home after my
grandmother died in 1904. But anyhow,
so I finally got the job due to the fact that they had
an Italian colony down at Dickinson in League
City. and Alta Loma and Hitchcock, and the
inspectors were having trouble getting over the
program to them, so I went on down there as
assistant to one of the inspectors. Well, I did a
good job as assistant, so they made me the
inspector. I worked at that job down there for over
a year, and I was about ready to be transferred. My
salary was $150 a month, and by that time I had
bought a Ford, and I was paying my brother back with
a great advance on my education and then war was
declared and in my brother's office in Houston the
Marine recruiting office was on that same floor.
So one day the recruiting officer said to me he knew
he had met me over at the press club and I was with
Bruce Mansfield, who was the son of Congressman
Mansfield, and Mansfield was teaching
descriptive geometry at A&M. He was down there for
the summer. So, McCauley, well, anyhow, the war
was declared, and I decided my own self. I was told I
had an exemption because we needed cotton to make
gunpowder with and so forth and so on, but I had well
remembered that what I wanted to do, so...
McCauley got us up to his office and said that we
could be 2nd Lieutenant of the Marine Corps
provided we'd go over to New Orleans and take the
examination. That our certification as to our
education qualification would be substantiated
by our degrees from Texas A&M College. So I
proceeded to New Orleans, Louisiana. Bruce
Mansfield and I went before a board and
passed the board and passed the physical and
everything and was made a second lieutenant and
before we were told to return home and in three days
time we had proceed orders. I had been in a little
bit of disfavor at A&M about a matter that was
questionable and I was told to stay off the campus.
What matter was that? The distribution of it. a
paper called the court-martial put out by the
class of 16. I had distributed them and of course,
being a yellow leader, everybody knew me and of
course I was on report and that night at the dance.
What did this paper say? Well, it was like the rip
saw that they put out at the University of
Virginia. It said that Dr. Brazell's wife was
going to examine the lingerie of all the girls
before they go to the dance. And the fictitious
names of the editors were YMCA people and
goody-goody boys like Penrose Metcalf and Whitey
Moffat and all of that. And then they called, they
said something about, they called Dean Kyle,
Edward Jackass Kyle, all in fun. And
so that night I was dancing, I was the sheriff of...
We said, Brad, this guy tapped me on the shoulder
and says, I got a warrant for your arrest for
criminal libel. So I turned around and I said, what
do I do next? And by that time, a fellow by the name of
Meredith James, whose father had a drug store in
Bryan, he went to my barn. Another fellow from out
west Texas by the name of L.P. Jones, he went to my
barn. So I went back on my territory, intended to my
business. So I knew... When war was declared, I
knew whether to come to A&M College because I was
told to stay off the campus. So I knew whether to
come back up there and ask for a application to be
commissioned in the Army, but I'd always had a
tender heart for the Marine Corps because I loved
those blues and I'd read about the Marines at
Santiago and I'd already read about the Marine
history and all like that, so it didn't mean
anything. So... So that's why you went in the
Marines, though, instead of the Army? I went to
Marine Corps first, I had a love for the Marines. As
a child, I saw all those people coming up from
Mississippi River, the Marine Guard, you know. I
got pictures of Mississippi right down in there
right now. Anyhow. There's another thing that I
wanted to ask you about the Corps. And I was
wondering what ways do you think the Corps helped
you? The Corps helped me. If I hadn't been a second
lieutenant in the Marine Corps, I never could
have. I mean, in A&M, I never could have made it in
the Marine Corps. Oh, why do you say that? Because
the things I learned at Texas A&M College,
continual close order drill, continual
discipline, continual guard mount, the honor
system, and the comradeship, Organization,
leadership, that you learned at A&M College.
Although I wasn't such a big crowd, but I realized
it all had to be. That's what makes a good leader.
And practically all, I wasn't the only Aggie.
There were 22 of us went in the Marine Corps during
that time, 22 Aggies. And all of us had been in the
Corps. Not like today, you don't have to be in the
Corps, but everybody had been in the Corps. Had to
be in the Corps because under the Smith-Lever Act,
that's what they were supposed to seek, military
science and tactics and agriculture and
engineering art. Well, I see right now they're
bacheloring the act because they're not doing
that. Everybody ought to have two years of
military service.
Was there any way, do you think, that the Corps
might not have helped you, might have hindered
you? Never. Never will I think that. I was so proud
to be a cadet at A&M College and when they gave me
that sword and gave me that parchment the second
lieutenant was hanging around, I was just so
grateful I felt proud of even being a second
lieutenant. I was proud of being a sergeant. Was
there anything about the Corps that you did not
like? Not a thing. Never. I loved the leadership. I
admired all those people. And after civil life,
after all that, I can see back now what it did. And
when I see the people of A&M College have
accomplished something, they've always had
training and leadership which started at Texas
A&M College. So, in other words, you think the
Corps helped you become a general? You bet, I do. I
certainly do. Because it taught you to be a leader?
I think it did. I know it did. Okay, okay, fine. See,
I know it did. Mm-hmm. And, uh... The things I
learned at A&M College about defense, I lived in a
tent two years. Well, it wasn't, that wasn't, it
was tough. I said to somebody, I lived in a tent two
years, and he said, well, you're setting him once
more on education, my bad. Well, either he was that
or else. It was very unhandy. My headquarters was
up at Austin Hall, and I lived in tent 12. It was 12
places from the flagpole. And when you had guard
mount, you had to go all the way up. Dawson Hall, the
details started there, instead of starting out in
front of the main building, it started there. But
with all the hardships, all that discipline, I
think in the Act of Life, the things you have to do,
there's no easy way. You take things step by step.
Same way with responsibility. You start with a
little responsibility, and you come with another
and another. Now... Now there's something else
I'd like to ask you. You must have dealt with a lot of
officers during your career that were either from
Annapolis or from ROTC? I'll get to that. Okay,
fine. All right, now wait a minute. Okay. We were
talking about... We were talking about the Corps.
We were talking about getting in the Marine Corps.
Yeah. All right, well, when I had been home three
days and I received receipt orders... Mm-hmm. And
I decided to go up to Texas A&M to tell my favorite
professors goodbye, and the sergeants in the
commandant's office, Sergeant Kenny, Sergeant
Smart, and Sergeant Kenny Smart, and Holland,
called him Satch, who incidentally had a son who
graduated at West Point. So when I arrived there, a
young officer, I can't call his name right now, who
was assistant commandant, heard me back there
talking to Sergeant Kenny and said to me, he says,
your name Baraka? Yes. I said, well, did you get
that letter? I said, yes, I got that letter. I was
staying off this campus. Yes, I did. He says, but I
says to him, Lieutenant, you don't know who you're
talking to. By that time, I told him, I says, you are
talking to Second Lieutenant Victor A. Baraka,
United States Marine Corps. on the proceed
orders. I said, this is a land grant scholar and an
instrumentality of the government and the Marine
Corps and an instrumentality of the government
and so you can't put me off this campus. So he said,
let me see your orders. So I showed him my orders and
when he saw that proceed, he knew that I was on duty
to go and pay then. He reached out his hand and
congratulated me and said, I hope you get back
alive. That's true. All right. Now we're going to
get... So that was 1917, as soon as America went
into the war. That's correct. Okay. All right.
Now...
What did I do with that?
Now, I'll give you briefly... Of course, I've got
some pictures here. I'm going to give you a copy of
this. Okay, good. I said I commissioned second
lieutenant in the Marine Corps, April 1970, and he
completed the basic course, Marine Corps School,
Quantico, Virginia.
Evidence. Oh, really? Nice picture. These are the
great-greats of the Marine Corps.
So this is officer training school here? That's
right. Quantico, Virginia, 1917. Ain't no bull
here. August. Yeah, I am right there. See me? Yeah.
There's Brailford, one of the first Marines to get
killed. There's Gilfillan from up at Tyler.
Former commandants of the Marine Corps are all in
this group. Cates and them and all that.
It is.
That's a nice picture. There's the Honorable,
there's Drexel Biddle. We don't mean much to you,
but there's a family of Bailey Banks and Biddle in
Philadelphia. He stayed on active in the Marine
Corps for free. Biddle. I know Biddle. He taught
us, he taught us. I know the Biddle family. You do.
He taught us the bayonet, the quake, the boxing. In
the Marine Corps, we had to run boxing. I'll tell
you about that. Tell me about that. Tell me about
your basic training back in 1917. All right, we'll
go through it right quick.
The basic training in 19, as I showed you, in this
officer battalion here,
was broken down into companies A, B, C, and D, and I
happened to be in B company again. It was commanded
by... a son of a great-grand-nephew of General
Robert E. Lee. He was a very kind man. We were issued
782 equipment, and we were barracks all together,
organizing companies, and we trained very hard.
We all had classroom in the mornings. We had Then we
had drill all day and half the night. In that school
we learned to do topography and I often thought
when I had to take civil engineering one and two as a
bug under the A&M, God, what the hell I ever needed
that for. But I knew I needed it later on at A&M when I
took water conservation and making terraces. I
always did come in handy for me making contour maps
because all they gave us was a plane table and a
compass. We had all kinds of
real forced marches. We had plenty of experience
in the field. We had banded fighting. We had
boxing. And I well remember that old man Biddle,
with his marches out, and with right face around
that, that was your opponent, all that on gloves.
And he said you had to learn to box before you could
use a bayonet. So he said, you got a bayonet, you hit
a guy in the chest with a bayonet, you slash him over
the head with your, I mean, with the butt of your
rifle, butt him up in the breast, you slash him over
the head with your rifle, and if your rifle breaks,
you kick him in the nuts, or the cards, he said. He
also showed us how to use a knife and quake, and in
those days, judo had just started. That was all
part of our training. As I say, we learned signal
work, semaphore, the Morse code, and we had all
kinds of close order drills every day and tactics
and problems and so forth and so on, besides
building a trench city where the, Butler Stadium
is there in Quantico, Virginia today. The
termination of that school, I— Did you think it was
a good school? I mean, did you think you learned a
lot? Did you learn a lot? Sure learned a lot. Did
they prepare you? I had learned to fire the range at
A&M College, too. And when they took me to the rifle
range, of course I wasn't so hot, but the second day
I was on the line, Sergeant grabbed me and he says,
the way you're going, you're not going to make
exploits. We want our officers to be exploits. So I
snapped in for three or four days there, and he put
me on the line, and I made exploits. This is all at
Quantico, Virginia, the officer school. How many
Aggies were there in your class? About 22. About 22
Aggies. Out of how many, about 100? Were there
about 100 there? No, there wasn't any 100 there.
How many were there? I
would say there were about 12 of us in that class.
These other people, with their training, they
didn't go to officer school. Kids who had
graduated in 1917, as you recall, were in ROTC. So
they took officers from the class of 15, 16, and the
people in 17 had the preference because they were
already in ROTC. And whatever service they went
in, they assigned them to active duty
immediately. I see. I see. See? But in my school,
there'd been people in ROTC, too. I showed you that
picture of those people. But anyhow, I
was assigned a duty at... Charleston Navy Yard, I
didn't get it in there, but for transportation to
the West Indies. I served as a big part of the war in
the West Indies. Virgin Islands, March 1918.
There you go. You can take this. Either one of you
can take this. All right.
Now what did you do there? You were the
post-treasurer? I was disappointed, of course,
that I didn't get overseas, but the Marine Corps
had so many stations and the Army didn't want too
many Marines overseas. We didn't have but two
regiments, 15th and 6th, and the 13th back at Brest
on the General's button. They didn't want any in
the lines, but Marines did have three or four
generals commanding Army divisions, which was
General Lejeune and others. So you were upset that
you couldn't go and fight against Germany? No. But
I went to West Indies. And in the West Indies, you
know, we were fighting bandits from Haiti and San
Domingo and all those places, and this command
here was part of it. I don't understand, though.
Tell me, what do you mean you were fighting
bandits? You were keeping the peace? Yeah, in
Haiti and San Domingo. Okay. You see, this was all
under the...